[Excel] Refresh Excel low-engagement articles (#5779)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-conditional-formatting.md

---
title: Apply conditional formatting with Excel JavaScript API
description: Create, change, prioritize, and clear conditional formatting rules in Excel add-ins by using the Excel JavaScript API.
ms.date: 06/03/2026
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Apply conditional formatting to Excel ranges by using the Excel JavaScript API

> Use conditional formatting when your Excel add-in needs to flag delayed orders, highlight negative values, or visualize trends without changing cell values. This article shows how to create common rule types, update existing rules, control rule priority, and clear rules. For background on Excel's built-in conditional formatting experience, see [Add, change, or clear conditional formats](https://support.microsoft.com/office/fed60dfa-1d3f-4e13-9ecb-f1951ff89d7f) and [Use a formula to apply conditional formatting in Excel](https://support.microsoft.com/office/use-a-formula-to-apply-conditional-formatting-in-excel-for-mac-34093090-235b-4476-a7ce-1da7880c750f). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use conditional formatting when your Excel add-in needs to flag delayed orders, highlight negative values, or visualize trends without changing cell values. This article shows how to create common rule types, update existing rules, control rule priority, and clear rules. For background on Excel's built-in conditional formatting experience, see [Use conditional formatting to highlight information in Excel](https://support.microsoft.com/Excel/use-conditional-formatting-to-highlight-information-in-excel) and [Use a formula to apply conditional formatting in Excel](https://support.microsoft.com/Excel/use-a-formula-to-apply-conditional-formatting-in-excel-for-mac). 
```

## See also

- [Set range format using the Excel JavaScript API](excel-add-ins-ranges-set-format.md)
- [Add data validation to Excel ranges](excel-add-ins-data-validation.md)
- [Core Excel object model concepts for Office Add-ins](excel-add-ins-core-concepts.md)
- [ConditionalFormat object reference](/javascript/api/excel/excel.conditionalformat)
- [Add, change, or clear conditional formats](https://support.microsoft.com/office/fed60dfa-1d3f-4e13-9ecb-f1951ff89d7f)

> - [Use a formula to apply conditional formatting in Excel](https://support.microsoft.com/office/use-a-formula-to-apply-conditional-formatting-in-excel-for-mac-34093090-235b-4476-a7ce-1da7880c750f)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Use a formula to apply conditional formatting in Excel](https://support.microsoft.com/Excel/use-a-formula-to-apply-conditional-formatting-in-excel-for-mac)
```
